Greetings, and welcome back! In this lesson, we will discuss how a left join works, which is another way to merge two tables. Before we start talking about left joins, let's quickly review what we have learned so far.
## Quick review
In chapter 1, we introduced the pandas merge method that allows us to combine two tables by specifying one or more key columns to link the tables by. By default, the merge method performs an inner join, returning only the rows of data with matching values in the key columns of both tables.
## Left join
In this lesson, we'll talk about the idea of a left join. A left join returns all rows of data from the left table and only those rows from the right table where key columns match. Here we have two tables named left and right. We want to use a left join to merge them on key column C. A left join returns all of the rows from the left table and only those rows from the right table where column C matches in both. Notice the second row of the merged table. The columns from the left table are filled in, while the column from the right table is not since there wasn't a match found for that row in the right table. Let's review another example.
## New dataset
To help us learn more about left joins and other concepts in this chapter, we will use data from The Movie Database, a community-built movie database with info on thousands of movies, their casts, and popularity. In our next example, we have two tables from The Movie Database that we want to merge. Our first table, named movies, holds information about individual movies such as the title name and its popularity. Additionally, each movie is given an ID number. Our table starts with 4,803 rows of data. Our second table is named taglines, which contains a movie ID number and the tag line for the movie. Notice that this table has almost 4,000 rows of data, so it contains fewer movies than the movies table.
## Merge with left join
To merge these two tables with a left join, we use our merge method similar to what we learned in chapter 1. Here we list the movie table first and merge it to the taglines table on the ID column in both tables. However, notice an additional argument named 'how'. This argument defines how to merge the two tables. In this case, we use 'left' for a left join. The default value for how is 'inner', so we didn't need to specify this in Chapter 1 since we were only working with inner joins. 
```Python
movies_taglines = movies.merge(taglines, on='id', how='left')
```
The result of the merge shows a table with all of the rows from the movies table and a value for tag line where the ID column matches in both tables. Wherever there isn't a matching ID in the taglines table, a null value is entered for the tag line. Remember that pandas uses NaN to denote missing data. After the merge, our resulting table has 4,805 rows. This is because we are returning all of the rows of data from the movies table, and the relationship between the movies table and taglines is one-to-one. Therefore, in a one-to-one merge like this one, a left join will always return the same number rows as the left table.
## Let's practice!
Now, let's practice some.